Web/getting_started/build.rst, before:

.. _trp-build:

=====
Build
=====


Emscripten
==========

* Install Emscripten
* On Windows install also MinGW 

 ::

	mkdir Build
	cd Build
	emconfigure cmake -G "MinGW Makefiles" ..
	cmake --build .


Windows 
=======

First you have to install SDL2 visual dev libraries.
and add an environment variable called "SDL2" to your system

Then, in order to build Ratata (the I.D.E.) you must install QT5
if you don't use the regular install directory, you may need to change the cmake files;



 ::

	mkdir Build
	cd Build
	cmake -G "Visual Studio 12 2013 Win64" ..


If visual is the only ins available on your machine 
use a simple cmake otherwise you may have to specify the generator
with the -G option .
In order to build a 64 bits version, it's also done through the generator.
On windows cmake have difficulties to find sdl2 so please add a SDL2 environment
variable on your system to indicate cmake where your sdl2 library is installed
 
 ::


	mkdir Build
	cd Build
	cmake ..
	cmake --build .

XCode
=====
 ::

	mkdir Build
	cd Build
	cmake -G "XCode" ..
	cmake --build .

Commit message:

Un petit update. Le passage de networkManager en singleton + un peu de doc + un peu de cmake

Web/getting_started/build.rst, after:

.. _trp-build:

=====
Build
=====


Emscripten
==========

* Install Emscripten
* On Windows install also MinGW 

 ::

	mkdir Build
	cd Build
	emconfigure cmake -G "MinGW Makefiles" ..
	cmake --build .


Windows 
=======

First you have to install SDL2 visual dev libraries.
and add an environment variable called "SDL2" to your system


`SDL2 <https://www.libsdl.org/download-2.0.php>`_

and SDL2-Net dev libraries for visual also

`SDL2_NET <https://www.libsdl.org/projects/SDL_net/>`_

Then, in order to build Ratata (the I.D.E.) you must install QT5

`QT5 <http://www.qt.io/download/>`_

if you don't use the regular install directory, you may need to change the cmake files;



 ::

	mkdir Build
	cd Build
	cmake -G "Visual Studio 12 2013 Win64" ..


If visual is the only ins available on your machine 
use a simple cmake otherwise you may have to specify the generator
with the -G option .
In order to build a 64 bits version, it's also done through the generator.
On windows cmake have difficulties to find sdl2 so please add a SDL2 environment
variable on your system to indicate cmake where your sdl2 library is installed
 
 ::


	mkdir Build
	cd Build
	cmake ..
	cmake --build .


You can also clean

 ::

	cmake --build . --target clean

or install TRP

 ::

	cmake --build . --target install

XCode
=====
 ::

	mkdir Build
	cd Build
	cmake -G "XCode" ..
	cmake --build .
