rototo/doc/en/Installation.md, before:


# Installation

T.R.P. don't really need to be "installed". 

## OSX 

Under OSX, T.R.P. comes as a disk image (dmg file). Just click on this dmg file to mount it.
You will see something like this

![Alt text](./raw/images/osx-installer.png)\

Copy everything to a location of your choice
Launch Rototo just to see the samples.

## Windows

On Windows, T.R.P. comes as a zip file.
Copy the content of the zip file to a location of your choice
Launch Rototo just to see the samples.

However, it comes with a set of tools which, in turn, need to be. These tools are optional but T.R.P. was thought to use them. So your life will be much simpler if you do;-)

## ShoeBox


Shoebox is a freeware tool(made with the Adobe Air SDK) for generating sprites sheets.
T.R.P. use it a lot for sprites and animations.

To install it, you must first install the adobe air environment (if you don't already have it of course)
Just go to
[http://get.adobe.com/fr/air/](http://get.adobe.com/fr/air/)
and follow the instructions.

When the air environment is installed , take a version of Shoebox directly on the ShoeBox's website :

[http://renderhjs.net/shoebox/](http://renderhjs.net/shoebox/)


## Tiled

Tiled is a well known tile editor.
If you want to do a tile based game or just instantiate 2d objects with Tiled,
take a version of Tiled directly on their website :

[http://www.mapeditor.org](http://www.mapeditor.org)





## Configuration

You can edit the file settings.xml to configure T.R.P.
For example, you can set the initial position of the window, it's scale, the default text editor, etc...

win32 sample : 

	<settings>
	<position x = "50" y = "100"/>
	<size w = "768" h="576"/>
	<editor url="D:\tools\Sublime Text Build 3 3021 x64\sublime_text.exe" args="%s:%d:%d"/>
    <datafolder directory="gamedata-shooter"/>
	<autorestart value="0"/>
	<allowdebug value="1"/>
    <verbose value="0"/>
    <logtofile value="1"/>
    <server ip="192.168.0.1"/>
	</settings>

OSX Sample :

	<settings>
	<position x = "50" y = "100"/>
	<size w = "768" h="576"/>
	<editor url="/usr/local/bin/subl" args="%s:%d:%d"/>
    <datafolder directory="mygamedata"/>
	<autorestart value="1"/>
	<allowdebug value="0"/>    
    <verbose value="0"/>
    <logtofile value="1"/>
    <server ip="192.168.0.1"/>
	</settings>

Here are the different options available : 

* position      : window's position in screen coordinates
* size          : window's size in screen coordinates
* editor        : url of your favorite text editor
* datafolder    : folder name of your gamedata.
* autorestart   : if value != 0 T.R.P. will restart automatically if the gamedata folder changed (add/modify/remove files)
* allowdebug    : if value != 0 you can attach a debugger
* verbose       : Set T.R.P. in verbose mode or not
* logtofile     : Every T.R.P. log is written to a file called trp.log
* server        : IP Address of the T.R.P. server (only if you want to connect to it as a client)

## How to see Debug Logs

### Pro way

If you want to see all logs (included TRP internal logs), the best option is to
see OutputDebugString (and eventually turn on the verbose mode)


* Under Windows

Use the application Dbgview.exe located in the Tools directory

[Download it Here](http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/bb896647.aspx)

* Under OSX

Use the OSX Console Application located in Utility/Console.

### Easy way

If you only want to see your logs, it's easier to turn on the logtofile option
and use a file logger to see trp.log modifications in real time.
For example you can use the free version of BareTail

[Download it Here](http://www.baremetalsoft.com/baretail/index.php)


or Glogg 


[Download it Here](http://glogg.bonnefon.org/)

Commit message:

Shortcuts again + Update Version number

rototo/doc/en/Installation.md, after:


# Installation

T.R.P. don't really need to be "installed". 

## OSX 

Under OSX, T.R.P. comes as a disk image (dmg file). Just click on this dmg file to mount it.
You will see something like this

![Alt text](./raw/images/osx-installer.png)\

Copy everything to a location of your choice
Launch Rototo just to see the samples.

## Windows

On Windows, T.R.P. comes as a zip file.
Copy the content of the zip file to a location of your choice
Launch Rototo just to see the samples.

However, it comes with a set of tools which, in turn, need to be. These tools are optional but T.R.P. was thought to use them. So your life will be much simpler if you do;-)

## ShoeBox


Shoebox is a freeware tool(made with the Adobe Air SDK) for generating sprites sheets.
T.R.P. use it a lot for sprites and animations.

To install it, you must first install the adobe air environment (if you don't already have it of course)
Just go to
[http://get.adobe.com/fr/air/](http://get.adobe.com/fr/air/)
and follow the instructions.

When the air environment is installed , take a version of Shoebox directly on the ShoeBox's website :

[http://renderhjs.net/shoebox/](http://renderhjs.net/shoebox/)


## Tiled

Tiled is a well known tile editor.
If you want to do a tile based game or just instantiate 2d objects with Tiled,
take a version of Tiled directly on their website :

[http://www.mapeditor.org](http://www.mapeditor.org)





## Configuration

You can edit the file settings.xml to configure T.R.P.
For example, you can set the initial position of the window, it's scale, the default text editor, etc...

win32 sample : 

	<settings>
	<position x = "50" y = "100"/>
	<size w = "768" h="576"/>
	<editor url="D:\tools\Sublime Text Build 3 3021 x64\sublime_text.exe" args="%s:%d:%d"/>
    <datafolder directory="gamedata-shooter"/>
	<autorestart value="0"/>
	<allowdebug value="1"/>
    <verbose value="0"/>
    <logtofile value="1"/>
    <server ip="192.168.0.1"/>
	</settings>

OSX Sample :

	<settings>
	<position x = "50" y = "100"/>
	<size w = "768" h="576"/>
	<editor url="/usr/local/bin/subl" args="%s:%d:%d"/>
    <datafolder directory="mygamedata"/>
	<autorestart value="1"/>
	<allowdebug value="0"/>    
    <verbose value="0"/>
    <logtofile value="1"/>
    <server ip="192.168.0.1"/>
	</settings>

Here are the different options available : 

* position      : window's position in screen coordinates
* size          : window's size in screen coordinates
* editor        : url of your favorite text editor
* datafolder    : folder name of your gamedata.
* autorestart   : if value != 0 T.R.P. will restart automatically if the gamedata folder changed (add/modify/remove files)
* allowdebug    : if value != 0 you can attach a debugger
* verbose       : Set T.R.P. in verbose mode or not
* logtofile     : Every T.R.P. log is written to a file called trp.log
* server        : IP Address of the T.R.P. server (only if you want to connect to it as a client)

## Keyboard Shortcuts

- Ctrl-R : restart
- Ctrl-F : Open the explorer (or Finder) into the script directory
- Ctrl-H : Open the HTML Help File

## How to see Debug Logs

### With Ratata

Simply open Ratata and connect it to Rototo. Then go to the console widget to see your logs.

### Without Ratata - Pro way

If you want to see all logs (included TRP internal logs), the best option is to
see OutputDebugString (and eventually turn on the verbose mode)


* Under Windows

Use the application Dbgview.exe located in the Tools directory

[Download it Here](http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/bb896647.aspx)

* Under OSX

Use the OSX Console Application located in Utility/Console.

### The Easy way

If you only want to see your logs, it's easier to turn on the logtofile option
and use a file logger to see trp.log modifications in real time.
For example you can use the free version of BareTail

[Download it Here](http://www.baremetalsoft.com/baretail/index.php)


or Glogg 


[Download it Here](http://glogg.bonnefon.org/)
